---
layout: posts
title:  "HW15: Chapter 19"
---
#### 19.3 Why is it impossible to infer the emergent properties of a complex system from the properties of the system components?
In the words of Ian Sommerville, “...a system is more than the sum of its parts” (pg. 545). The complex relationships between components that comprise computer systems determine their emergent properties. These are, by definition, properties of the system as a whole that emerge from subsystem properties and relationships once they have been integrated. Examples of emergent properties include security and dependability.

To understand why it is impossible to infer the emergent properties of a complex system from individual properties of the system components, take the emergent property of dependability as an example. Let’s say are building a digital barometer, which measures barometric pressure. Looking at hardware components alone, you may have great confidence in their dependability; they were built by a respected weather instrument manufacturer who has had few faulty items. However, you can’t evaluate the dependability of the entire system until you evaluate that of the software component. Beyond that, you have to consider how the risk of failure at either the software or hardware level could alter the dependability of the other. As the book mentions, an issue with a hardware component could generate invalid inputs to the software, confusing the software and causing failure of that component as well. In our example, this may look like a completely blank screen rather than an accurate pressure reading. The same logic applies to other emergent properties such as security.
